# DALIA DIF v1.3 CSV Curation Guide

This guide contains an explanation of the headers that can appear within a DIF
v1.3 CSV file. Each has an explanation of what data type goes in each (string,
URI reference, date, etc.), whether it's required or optional, and an
explanation of how to curate values.

## Columns

### `DALIA_ID` (required)

A single UUID to represent the resource under the `dalia.oer` prefix. Generate
this UUID yourself.

### `License` (required)

The SPDX license describing the upstream resource's terms and conditions.
Dashes, spaces, and capitalization are normalized.

Warning: don't confuse this with the licensing of the metadata curated in the
DIF, which is licensed independently (we suggest CC0 for maximum reusability)

This field also accepts the literal strings `proprietary` or `unlicensed`. For
example, videos on YouTube are often licensed with YouTube's proprietary license
if the creator did not opt into using CC-BY-4.0.

### `Link` (required)

The URL link to the OER. Ideally, this is a DOI or other persistent identifier,
but it can be any URL that resolves

### `Language` (required)

The language of the OER, written as an ISO two-letter code (e.g., `en` for
English, `de` for German)

### `Title` (required)

The title of the resource. Please write this in the same language mentioned in
the "Language" column. If a colon `:` is present, the first one will be used to
split the title into a title and subtitle, which get put in different fields in
DIF v1.3.

### `Description`

A textual description of the resource. Please write this in the same language
mentioned in the "Language" column

### `Authors`

A list of authors, separated by asterisks. Each author should be written with
family names, then a comma, then given names. If an ORCID is available, then it
can be added with a colon `:` then inside curly braces like in the following
example.

For example,
`Kremer, Dominik : {https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1244-7363} * Geiger, Jonathan : {https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0452-7075}`

### `Community`

A list of UUIDs corresponding to pre-curated communities in DALIA. If you would
like to request a new one, please email charles.hoyt@ac.rwth-aachen.de.

### `Discipline`

The disciplines (e.g., chemistry, biology) covered by the resource encoded using
URIs from the DINI-KIM Hochschulfächersystematik resource, like
https://w3id.org/kim/hochschulfaechersystematik/n7.

See https://w3id.org/kim/hcrt/scheme.html where you can search for the term and
copy the correct URI. When a discipline is missing from the resource, please
either directly make an issue on the upstream
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/dini-ag-kim/hcrt) or email
charles.hoyt@ac.rwth-aachen.de for help

### `FileFormat`

A list of file extensions used by the resource (e.g., `.pdf`). If multiple are
available, please use an asterisk as a delimiter (e.g., `.pdf * .zip`).

### `Keywords`

Free text keywords for the resource, delimited by an asterick (e.g.,
`digital humanities * culture`). Please write keywords in the same language
mentioned in the "Language" column

### `LearningResourceType`

The learning resource type. Choose one of the keys in
:data:`dalia_dif.dif13.picklist.LEARNING_RESOURCE_TYPES`.

### `MediaType`

The media type says what modality the learning resource has (e.g., audio, video,
text). This is a more broad category than learning resource type. Choose from
one of the keys in :data:`dalia_dif.dif13.picklist.MEDIA_TYPES`.

### `ProficiencyLevel`

One of the five proficiency levels described by the Dreyfus adaptive learning
model (https://doi.org/10.1177/02704676042649): novice, advanced beginner,
competent, proficient, or expert. These are encoded in
:data:`dalia_dif.dif13.picklist.PROFICIENCY_LEVELS`

### `PublicationDate`

The date of publication, written in ISO standard format YYYY-MM-DD

### `TargetGroup`

The target audience (e.g., school students, bachelor's level students, data
stewards, etc.). Choose from the keys in
:data:`dalia_dif.dif13.picklist.TARGET_GROUPS`.

### `RelatedWork`

Links to related works. These are curated as an asterisk-delimited list of
predicate-value pairs like: `isPartOf:https://doi.org/10.11588/heidicon/1738716`
where the first part of the string is a key from
:data:`dalia_dif.dif13.picklist.RELATED_WORKS_RELATIONS` followed by a colon,
then the URL (ideally a DOI or other persistent identifier) to the target of the
relation.

### `Size`

The size, in megabytes (MB) of the file (e.g., `0.142`). Use a maximum of 3
places after the decimal point. Do not write `MB`.

### `Version`

The version of the OER. The same OER that is updated over time might have
different versions, each of which could be assigned their own record (and UUID)
in DALIA.

## Colophon

Additional example files can be found in
https://github.com/data-literacy-alliance/dalia-curation.

This guide was autogenerated from the code documentation in
`src/dalia_dif/dif13/constants.py`
